                               Mage Spells
                              -------------
Magic Sparks:
Not much more than a cantrip, this is the first spell learned by young
students of magic. It costs the caster 10 mana, so although not all of their
mana pool, at least a considerable amount. It is likely that they will not be
able to cast it a second time in the same bought of combat.

Flame Spear:
This offensive mage spell is still not a gang busting spell, but it can help
out now and then.  It is learned by the young dilogent mage striving
to master their craft.

Ice Storm:
The first area affect spell learned by wizards in the realm of Exitilus.
Does a lot of damage to all monsters, but is a initially a major drain on
the spell caster.

Lightning Bolt:
An advanced spell to get that one tough mob. It's the first major offensive
ability available to the magician in some time, and can be a real life
saver (only cherry).

Frost Spray:
A low level mage spell, it does more damage to your enemy than magic sparks,
but not much. Some think it's useful, but others find it a waste; each spell
caster will have to decide for themselves.

Teleport:
A great spell to bail yourself out when you know the monster your fighting is
getting the best of you.  However, Keveen has heard of some reports, though
questionable, that excessive use of this spell by inexperienced spell casters
has resulted in missing body parts.

Transient Shield:
A magical shield to help deflect enemy blows, though as the name suggests,
it isn't permanent.

Alchemy:
Most people thought wizards only learned offensive spells. But when they
started being killed by the meanest of monsters in the realm of Exitilus,
they began to experiment with new spell components, and came up with a potion
for healing. The original caster of the Alchemy spell was nominated for the
Nobel prize in magic, but the committee found the spell very close to the
first prayer learned by acolytes.

Frigid Blast:
Mages were finding that as they got more powerful, Ice Storm wasn't cutting
it. They needed something against those dragons. It's not an area affect
spell, but it's great at removing the worst of the bunch out of the way.

Shockwave:
This is about as close to mass destruction as it gets. A warrior would rather
spend all day hacking a bunch of monsters, but the seasoned wizard finds it
much easier to just cast one spell and get rid of them all in one foul swoop.

                             Cleric Spells
                            ---------------
Heal:
While still in the cemanary, young acolytes begin to pray to the God for
their first event of grace.  This seems to the acolyte to be the most
unobtainable, because it is the first; but rarely are they not rewarded.
The heal spell, although not strong at low levels, will grow with the wisdom
of the cleric and is probably their most beneficial favor from their God,
as it often is their only chance of survival.

Spiritual Shield:
Next to the ability of healing, this unearthly shield against harm is the
next most important for the young clerics who fight against their enemies in
the physical realm.  Upon successful completion of this prayer, a shimmering
shield of florrescent light collesses in front of the young cleric and
absorbs some of the wrath of their enemies attack.  It is not the strongest
of spells, but it does last for the durration of the fight.

Sticks to Snakes:
Although a relatively low leveled spell, Sticks to Snakes adds some real
punch to a cleric's offense.  Although this rare offensive prayer does low
amounts of damage to monsters individually, it is the only area affect spell
clerics ever learn.
